add jenkins and elasticsearch to backup docs (#38)
portworx/pxdocs-backup: content/use-px-backup/backup-stateful-applications/jenkins.md

---
title: Backup Jenkins on Kubernetes
description: 
keywords: backup, jenkins
weight: 4
hidesections: true
disableprevnext: true
---

You can use the instructions on this page to create pre and post backup rules with PX-Backup, which take application-consistent backups for Jenkins on Kubernetes in production.

> Jenkins stores data within a directory known as `JENKINS_HOME`. You should configure a persistent volume for Jenkins so that the entire directory is backed by a volume to capture all data associated with Jenkins. Workspaces, plug-ins, jobs, user content and overall configuration within this directory is vital when recovering from various types of failures. 

Reviewer: same note about prerequisites as the other article.

See below for a snippet of what this might look like in a Kubernetes spec file.

```text
...
        volumeMounts:
        - name: jenkins-home
          mountPath: /var/jenkins_home
      volumes:
        - name: jenkins-home
          persistentVolumeClaim:
            claimName: jenkins-data
...
```

Once you configure a PVC to be mounted at `/var/jenkins_home` you can use the below guide for pre and post backup rules.

## Installation

### Prerequisites

{{% content "shared/common-info.md" %}}

{{<info>}}

> **NOTE:** 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

> These examples assume that the Jenkins CLI is available within the Jenkins pod. You can make sure its available in the Jenkins pod(s) by running the below command.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**NOTE:** These examples assume that the Jenkins CLI is available within the Jenkins pod. You can make sure its available in the Jenkins pod(s) by running the below command.
```

```
kubectl exec <jenkins-deployment-pod> -n jenkins -- /bin/sh -c "wget http://<operations-center-url>:>port-number>/jnlpJars/jenkins-cli.jar -O /var/jenkins_home/cli.jar"
```

{{</info>}}

### Create rules for Jenkins

Create rules for Jenkins that will run both before and after the backup operation runs:

#### Create a pre-exec backup rule for Jenkins

> Let's assume the Jenkins deployment has a job called `job-1`. We will use the pre-exec rule to make sure this job is stopped before taking our snapshot.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Assume the Jenkins deployment has a job called `job-1`, you will use the pre-exec rule to make sure this job is stopped before taking our snapshot.
```

{{<info>}}
**NOTE:** 

> Stopping a job is not necessary to backup Jenkins. It is used as an example of a pre backup rule. You may run other commands available within the Jenkins pod here as well.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**NOTE:** Stopping a job is not necessary to backup Jenkins. It is used as an example of a pre backup rule. You may run other commands available within the Jenkins pod here as well.
```

{{</info>}}

1. Navigate to **Settings** → **Rules** → **Add New**.
2. Add a name for your Rule.
3. Add the following app label:

	```text
	app=jenkins
	```

4. Add the following action:

	```text
	java -jar /var/jenkins_home/cli.jar -s http://jenkins:8080 -webSocket -auth username:password stop-builds job-1
	```

    ![](/img/jenkins-pre-rule.png)

#### Create a post-exec backup rule for Jenkins

> After our backup is triggered, we can start the build for `job-1` again using a post-exec rule. This ensures our job is not running during the backup and is restarted after the backup data is captured. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After your backup is triggered, you can start the build for `job-1` again using a post-exec rule. This ensures your job is not running during the backup and is restarted after the backup data is captured. 
```
